It's the wild west, right? People are
charging crazy. I mean, Router and I
have
literally seen a marketing agency charge
70K for an ICP document. That looks like
something that my dad made on PowerPoint
and was clearly written in chat GPT.
[Music]
How to find a B2B marketing agency that
doesn't suck. Welcome back to a fresh
episode of Breaking B2B. I'm your host
Sam Dunning, founder over at breaking
B2B.com. So, join me today. I've got
Emma and Routter. They're the co-hosts
of the Blame It On Marketing podcast,
and they're both fractional CMOs.
Welcome. Welcome. How are we doing?
Thank you. It's a good intro. We should
start so boring.
Well, I don't know that I need to mix it
up. I think I've been doing the same for
a long time, but uh consistency, I
guess. But yeah, lovely to have you
both. We're going to be talking about
something that I think a lot of our
audience will find useful. Be it
marketers, founders, revenue leaders
watching or listening. How you can
actually find a solid agency for your
B2B tech or service company. We're going
to be diving into the problem we see
with most agencies, what red flags to
look out for, what to avoid, but also
how you can find an agency that's going
to be worth their salt and actually
drive some impact, drive some pipeline,
drive some revenue, drive some cash in
the bank for your business. So, we don't
mess around. Let's dive straight in.
What What is the problem with most B2B
marketing agencies?
Where do you want to start?
You want to go, Emma? Cover off one
side. Yeah, I was going to say I think
first of all, you know, in terms of like
B2B marketing agencies, there are now so
many that's one of the first issues,
right? There are so many some of them
being real specialists in particular,
like marketing, you know, specialisms
and others being like generalists, we
can do everything. Um, you know, and I
and I think that's part of where the
problem starts, right? is that you the
expectation on the other end as the
person bringing in the agency is that
you know what you want and what you
need. Um and then what tends to happen
is you're kind of maybe looking at
agencies that aren't actually a good fit
for you. So I think that's probably the
first start and as as I say there's lots
of agencies so everybody's like yeah
we'll take the work we'll take the work
kind of regardless of whether it's the
right fit or not. Um, so yeah, that's
just one bit. I think Rout is definitely
gonna have more. Yeah, I think um
there's so no offense to anyone who
might be this person that I'm talking
about, but there's lots of super super
young people coming out of um school or
maybe quitting university and opening
digital agencies because it's very much
in like the hustle culture, manosphere,
weirdness of the internet pipelines um
place to to do those kind of things.
It's a it's a business that you can open
with very little cost. Um you can
probably teach yourself a lot, but a lot
of the time they will lack that um
expertise and understanding of what it's
like to be in-house as a marketer. Um
and what it's like to actually drive for
results and the pressures that you have.
So if you've always been agency side um
or you've just come out of school and
like this is the first thing you do um
you can do a lot of things to one harm
your business and yourself but also you
will then kind of carry that forward for
all other digital agencies and
freelancers and marketers um
unintentionally but if someone has a bad
experience they have a bad experience
right so they think we're all like that.
Yeah. And then maybe at the opposite end
of the spectrum is um agencies that are
still like kind of either behind the
times or behind or not really fully
understanding the economic pressures of
the businesses that they're going into.
And so it's the wild west, right? People
are charging Yeah. crazy. I mean R and I
whatever you want. Yeah. I have
literally seen a marketing agency charge
70k for an ICP document that looks like
something that my nan made on PowerPoint
and was clearly written in chat GPT
because of the language used and
everything else. So yeah, and I think
you know a lot of businesses, a lot of
founders don't know what they should be
charged. They don't know what good looks
like. Um, and so yeah, opposite ends of
the spectrum there. Like got people who
have no experience, people who have a
lot of experience but are sort of taking
the piss. So yeah, it's really hard to
be in the middle of all that to be
honest. Like if you're the agency and
you're good or if you're trying to bring
in an agency, it's hard.
Yeah. Let's dive
in real quick. Are you tired of seeing
competitors above you in Google's
organic search results and AI search
every time dream clients are searching
for your solution, your software,
comparing vendors or looking for
problems that you solve? Meaning those
competitors are stealing traffic mind
share pipeline and revenue just because
they invested in an SEO program. We fix
that. Breaking B2B with an unusual
approach to SEO and content marketing
for B2B and SAS companies. Why not book
a call to see if we can start driving
pipeline and revenues as quick as 90
days with our different approach. Head
over to breakingb2b.com to grab a call.
I look forward to chatting to you soon.
Back to the
episode. So, so many options. Completely
agree. Completely agree. I mean, as a a
marketer or early stage founder, like
you say, choosing an agency or a
contractor is a minefield.
Um, so I think the first point you made
is
that a lot try to be, let's say, jack of
all trades
generalists. Um, and may not necessarily
be the right fit for yourself if you're
looking for an agency or or vice versa
if you're an agency trying to serve a
prospect. What let's let's go a bit
deeper on that point. like what should
you do as
the as the team searching for a te an
agency to see if they might be the right
fit for your needs and feel free to use
any examples or scenarios.
Yeah, I I think the first thing is
figuring out what you actually need. So
sit down if if you've done some
marketing, figure out what's working,
what you want to do more of. If you've
done no marketing and you're getting an
agency, then it's with the expectation
of we're gonna have to figure out what
works and we might have to like change
and chop quite a lot in our in our
relationship. It's not going to be like,
you know, we make a plan and that's it
and we go with it. So, figure out what
you need. um and really figure out what
areas of expertise you need because an
agency might be a jack of all trades,
but for example, if you need
specifically a little bit more support
in the copywriting, for example, or a
little bit more support in the technical
of like website setup, that kind of
thing, figure out if they have if they
actually have those specialisms in
agency, or if everyone's a jack of all
trades and then you're all kind of just
like struggling with specific things
that might be more technical. um whether
it's actually technical or like
technical in a different way. Um so
that's the that's the first thing I
would do and and be really honest with
yourself.
Yeah. I also think you need to think
through how handson do you want the
agency freelancer consultant fractional
person to be. Right. So I think quite
often um pe when you bring in an agency,
people are disappointed when they
realize that they they have an account
manager, they speak to the account
manager, the person who's doing the work
might be somewhere over here. Um you
might never get to speak to that person.
In some agencies, I'm not saying all
agencies. Yeah. Um and that might not be
what you want. You actually might want
someone who is a jack of all trades, for
example, who um can help you with lots
of different parts of your marketing
function, but you actually need that
person to be in the team and part of the
team, in which case you're looking for a
fractional. You're not looking for a
marketing agency. So again, I think just
yeah, first of all, what do you actually
need? Then how hands-on do you want that
person or that team to be? Um, and then
also what comes with that is like really
thinking through what your budget is.
Yeah. Because no marketing is
free. It's just not. Sorry. Um, even if
someone's spending their time on it,
it's not free. Um, and therefore, you
know, I would probably say in quite a
lot of cases, you get what you pay for.
So, if you want a freelancer off
Fiverr and you want something quick and
dirty and you're not too fast, that's
okay. That's what you'll get. Yeah. If
you want someone who's going to come in
and be like a
strategic right-hand person who sits on
the board, you got to expect to pay for
that. Um, so yeah, don't be don't be
shocked by that. Um and yeah so it's
like budget to pay for the people but
also budget to pay for the work as well.
Um so yeah can I can I add one more
point to that as well? So uh as we're
talking about this there's different
kinds of specialism. There's specialism
within marketing itself but there's also
specialism within industry. So for
example if you are a B2B tech company
you might want someone who knows B2B
tech to be in with you. But also it all
depends on how integrated this person
needs to be to be able to do a good job.
So if someone needs to understand your
ICP, your product, your problems in and
out like properly like they're internal,
that's going to be a very different
relationship than to someone who can
just go away, do a bit of search here
and there, pick up what they need from
you and then go do their work. So also
think about how much knowledge they need
to have to make it make sense in terms
of like what they're doing. Eg like
copyrightiting is probably where you're
going to need the most knowledge or if
they're doing strategy. Um so that's
another thing to think about. So
specialism like within the actual field
rather than marketing itself.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Some nice points. How
much planning do you think or brief
setting is on a prospective client i.e.
who's actually searching for the agency?
I'll give you the reason I ask is I
actively turn down quite a lot of
tenders. Um so if a I don't know if a
marketing leader comes to me with a
tender I'll probably I'll usually
politely decline because I know it's
going to be a bit of a song and dance.
Um just because I've been in agency life
for so long. So quite often I know that
I'm going to have to do a do a sing and
dance quite literally like put together
a massive proposal, do a pitch on Zoom
for like five different sessions in
front of half the board and then
eventually they'll say they went with
the incumbent. Um so I just don't do it.
But I am biased and I know they can
work. But I guess the point I'm getting
at is how much planning in terms of what
you need, the problem you have, what
you're trying to get to, budget, etc. is
on the client side or how much should be
on let's say discovery for the agency to
actually work out kind of if they're a
good fit, the problems they have, what
solution if any makes sense, etc. What
are your thoughts there? Question. I
think uh I I'm going to go with the like
maybe political answer which is that you
should meet in the middle, right?
Because if you don't brief in, how can
you ever if you don't brief in properly
like doesn't matter whether you're
inhouse or looking for a you're going to
end up with you're not going to end up
with what's actually right. So you do
need to be clear on that. It does get
trickier though if you are like say a
founder or a CEO and you're looking for
marketing support and you don't really
know what you're looking for because you
aren't a marketing expert. though at
that point, but it is still on you to go
and find a marketing expert to ask to
find out what it is you need because you
know the chances are you probably do
know someone or there might be someone
on your board that knows more about
marketing than you. So it is that is on
you. Um but then on the agency side
again like you said Sam I think it is
good for um for people to to sort of
almost maintain our
um like the integrity of our profession
if you like that we should turn down
stuff that's not right and we should
turn down stuff that is going to be a
song and a dance and that you can sense
there's a load of red flags
because it's not going to be good for
anybody in the long run. Um, and it's
not going to be good for the next
marketer either. So, I think, and I get
it because we're talking from a
fortunate position of having clients,
and if you don't have any clients, it's
terrifying, right? But yeah, it is kind
of on both sides to kind of Yeah. meet
in the middle and make sure you've done
your due diligence basically, which is a
really boring thing to have to do, but
it's on you.
Yeah. I think with the on the agency
side, it's your time to kind of maybe
start expectations as well. So, if
someone wants to spend, I don't know,
two grand with you and expect their SEO
like to be all their top keywords to be
ranking in one and three months, you're
going to be like, that's probably not
going to happen, you know, like unless
it's something really crazy. Um, so I
think it's time that's a good time to
like have that back and forth and be
like, hey, you know, this is a lot. We
think this is more reasonable. Like,
feel free to go away and ask someone
else. And if someone else can tell you
they can do it for that much, then we're
a little bit worried for you. But, you
know, it is what it is and that happens
as well, right? Like how many times have
we had like clients go away, get someone
cheap and then come back to us because
like it turns out they couldn't do half
of it or like they just sometimes
disappear as well, which or they went
with someone really expensive because
the assumption was, "Oh my god, they're
really expensive. They must be good cuz
they're wearing suits and brown shoes.
They must know what they're talking
about." And six months later, you're
calling us saying, "Can you come and
help, please?"
Yeah, we've we've seen like marketing
agencies that could have tanked
companies in terms of how much they were
charging and how little they were
delivering. Like it's really awful to
like come in after that and be like,
"Oh, guys, like what happened?"
Yeah, it makes me think I'm going to
butcher this, but there's like a poster
that I think was Oglvy. It might have
been another brand, but it literally has
a massive picture of a backbone and it
says, "This is a backbone. this is our
standard for delivering results. Um, it
also means we don't take on projects we
can't help with. It's something like
that. Some simple statement like it I
feel like I need that on the wall just
to remind me. And I feel like any
marketing agency should have that. And
it's basically saying like don't take on
every project because I've been there at
past agencies where I I try and sell to
anyone and everyone. And all it results
in in pain really is you you end up
under quoting or trying to overd
deliver, overstretch yourself, trying to
deliver work that's not in your comfort
zone. Client gets [__] [__] results. You
get pain. There's backlash. And you
realize that a lot of it comes down to
um desperation I guess in a sense agency
side trying not having a full pipeline
of qualified opportunities. A lot of
that comes down to from experience. Um I
think it's also sometimes nice to work
with freelancers because freelancers
have a very limited amount of hours they
can do. So they will only take projects
that make sense for them which is
usually a good indication of like
they're not going to [__] you around
unless they know they can work with you.
But again could be not the case. But
it's the same for everyone, right?
Because the the like if you have those
bad fit clients, like even if you know,
like you're the hate if you are the
people bringing in the the agency, you
know, like imagine, you know, like your
clients churn if they have a bad
experience with you. So it's the same
for us. Um and people I think people
still have this really stupid view that
you can go in and do something crappy
and people won't be discussing it. like
they will you know we we operate in
quite small worlds I think you know like
um it you know what's it six degrees of
separation is that right seven degrees
of separation whatever it is it's more
like three in B2B stuff like you know
someone who knows someone who knows
someone's going to ask about you at some
point and if you did something crappy in
that company and I know it's basically
like oh yeah but there's the financial
pressure there's the filling the
pipeline there's all of that kind of
stuff but if the client giant churns and
then everyone's bad mouthing you. Was it
worth it in the first place? Probably
not. And equally in the other way, like
there are people we will beg to work
with every time when they're
freelancers. We're like, please can we
have some of your time because we know
it's going to be good and we know that
we can recommend them in and we are
going to have a good time. So, it's it
works in in both ways, the bad mouthing
and the good mouthing.
Okay. So to wrap I guess this section of
the the show up, are we saying like some
of the onus is on us as the prospect to
kind of gather what we're actually
trying to achieve, but also agency side,
they should have a a solid discovery pro
process for 50/50. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, we
can work with that. And and and if you
can't do it, if you're a founder who
doesn't know what they need, find a
senior marketer to help you figure it
out. They'll be will be happy to talk to
you and not charge you for that kind of
thing. there will be someone to to talk
to about that.
Okay, pushing
forward. So, what do
we how are there are there signs that us
if we're in the market for a agency for
whatever we're struggling with? What
signs can we look out for, which is
getting harder and harder, um, that this
agency or this team or this contractor
is going to be trustworthy
and actually get us to from point A to
point B, I would always go with the
classic asking for a referral. If you
can stump up a client that can say good
things about you, then I feel like
that's like that's the ultimate trust
point, right? Um, I would also always
want to know about their results. So
like that's that's like the results
they've achieved for clients depending
on what the work is, but also their
financial results. Like in the UK we
have company's house doesn't take much
to just go and look someone up and see
what's going on. Um, you know, I think
in regards to the company that we were
discussing earlier on that charged 70k
for an ICP, if the client who paid that
money had gone and done their due
diligence properly and checked them out,
they may not have ended up in that
situation paying that money because they
would have seen that the people involved
in that agency had had a fa previously
failed agency. there are some pretty
salacious
read top articles written about some of
the directors of that agency you know so
I think if you just do a little bit of
homework um on the people involved um in
the agency at the top um I think you
know that should give you enough
I think push back as well like if an
agency is saying yes to me regardless of
what I'm saying I'm like surely guys I'm
not hitting this 100% like even though I
might know what I need like there is
limitations to to everything you know
it's either time money or resource or
like whatever so I feel like push back
is good and if an agency isounding you
down or freelancer isounding you down to
make a decision it's most likely because
they really need to close you for
financial reasons which could be a mild
red flag in terms of like well they
clearly are struggling with revenue like
why are they struggling with revenue Um,
so that's one. And pricing in general
for me is a good sign if someone's too
cheap or too expensive. It's it's weird.
I always ask questions about like why
why are you charging that? Like that
doesn't make sense. Um, so yeah, that's
that's the little signs for me.
Yeah, it makes sense. I think the asking
for references and and checking the
results and checking the company out,
doing your due diligence makes sense.
And pricing is a funny one, right?
Pricing is a really detailed topic. Um,
now is there any guidance that you could
give to check that you're paying a quote
unquote fair rate for deliverables?
Yeah, tricky, right? I actually think
that's quite hard, right? Because
obviously for agencies generally they
tend to charge by deliverables. So
that's sort of you should already know
if you're bringing in an agency, you
should sort of expect that. Um, so
that's fair enough. Uh I also think
let's say for example they do show you
the results and then you're like they
are a bit more on the expensive side
perhaps again that's an indication as to
why they're good at what they do they're
worth paying the money for you know it's
almost like that value exchange thing
when it comes to like fractionals and
freelancers again it's like the wild
west you know um you've got people who
are charging I don't know like 200
pounds a day for fractional CMO work
like they're undervaluing themselves
massively equally the other end of the
spectrum you've got consultants who go
into some of the big um big four type
businesses and charge three grand a day.
So it really it's it's such like a scale
and I think quite often what happens is
people think I can charge them this
because I know they make x amount of
money. So I feel like if you get a
sense that that's what's going
on that's also a red flag. But um yeah
it's quite difficult. I would say router
I hope you don't mind you say us mly
saying this we are probably more on the
expensive side of fractional CMOS for
B2B SAS um but that's because we've been
there done it got the t-shirt like we've
exited companies that's what we do I can
I can give some like rough numbers at
least these are what my numbers are in
my head so a junior freelancer anywhere
from like 150 to400 a day a mid-level
freelancer 400 to600 and then when you
get into the fractional CMOS it's 600 00
to 1,500. After
1,500, it's probably someone that's been
around for too long in in my opinion. Up
to 2,000 maybe. Maybe maybe. But you
have to be really special to be in that
1500 to 2,000 level. That's for
freelancers. Yeah, that's for
freelancers. And usually those people
will charge at project level anyway.
They won't charge a day rate anymore.
Um, so that's for freelancers. for
agencies. Um, lots of agencies have
switched from day rates to deliverables.
Back in the day, day rate was like 800
to,200, somewhere in that range. If
they're not telling you what their day
rate is anymore, they're charging for
deliverables. Try and figure out how
long it will take them to deliver those
deliverables. Um, and then try and
convert it into day rate. So, if they're
if it's an SEO agency and they're doing
like five website optimizations,
um, four blogs and three back links,
figure out what that actually looks
like, you know, in terms of hours and
try and equate it to that. And also
figure out what that looks like to you
in terms of results because it might be
that those results are just in terms of
margin completely unrealistic. So, it's
it's also about that like of the money
you put into these people, how much are
you going to get out? Obviously, it's
not always immediate, but like what
value can you attribute to that money?
And that's like that's my pricing. So,
if someone comes in with a 70k ICP,
there is nothing you could do for me in
a 70k ICP. Nothing. You could do an ICP
for like the most complicated product in
the world, but there is nothing that you
could do in that ICP for me to pay you
70K. That's just wild. Never.
Yes, it is an interesting one. I think
it's also interesting from both a
buyer's perspective and from an agency's
perspective because pricing can also if
you look at it from the agency side
can define who you actually will be
working with because you will price out
a lot of companies. like if you go to a
certain tier like for example with ours
we know that smaller businesses just
won't ever inquire um which is fine
whereas with my last agency when we were
doing more websites whereas now we focus
kind of B2B and tech SEO we're basically
selling to everyone anyone I learned the
pain of trying to do that and kind of
eventually niche down to B2B tech and
B2B SAS and then kind of realized
there's a lot lot more nuance and work
in involved in niching down and usually
these kind of folks appreciate that and
the ones that don't have a budget,
great. We might not be a fit. We'll
recommend a trusted freelancer or
contractor. Um the other teams will will
be happy to discuss and see if we can
help. So I think some of it agency side
comes with experience and sometimes you
have to go through the pain of
underelling and realizing what companies
aren't a fit and then eventually kind of
finding that niche, finding that sweet
spot. And I think also constantly
raising your prices from the agency side
like each year is is quite smart. Well,
it's the same it's the same as a a
freelancer or a fractional, right? Um,
you know, you have to think about
yourself as a business. You are you are
the business. You your time. Um, and you
do have to put your prices up. Um, and
because you have to survive, you have to
pay your bills. So, you know, we all
have to we have all have to do that. But
consistently, I agree with that. I think
consistently whether you decide to do
that in line with inflation or whatever
it might be or in line with you know
perhaps you've been speaking to other
people who work in the same sector and
you realize you're really undercharging
or undervaluing your skill set um you
know then but you do have to do that um
and and and I don't think anybody who
delivers a service if it's a good
quality service should ever be worried
about asking for what the what the value
exchange is worth. Um, and I think a lot
of, especially freelancers, I think on
on our side more so, are very concerned
with doing that because they feel like,
"Oh, but what if they just see me as an
expense?" Well, you're probably working
with the wrong clients then, aren't you?
Or you're doing the wrong work, right?
If your work is an expense, then you're
going to have a hard time either way.
Like, especially if the economics are
not great of the industry you're going
after. like if if your work is seemed
that looks like an expense and it's not
driving results then it's going to be
hard either way.
What are your thoughts on contracts with
agencies? I think that's always an
interesting one. Like we know there's
the classic 6 to 12 month tiein for
certain deliverables or some are
monthtomonth or things like that like
and I know some big companies like
enterprises sometimes prefer paying for
like two three years in advance because
they can get a discount and because
their pay runs are like because their
pay runs are like 60-day net they'd
actually prefer that because it's going
to take them 60 days to pay out the
agency and if they can pay for a free
month free year bulk they can save a ton
of cash on payroll whereas smaller
businesses more startup are going to be
like well we want kind of minimum risk
um so I don't know if you have any
thoughts in terms of kind of agreements
again it might be my bias and what kind
of companies I work in with what kind of
companies I work I would never pay an
agency for more than a
year like it's the best way to like
what's the word
uh incent the incentivize them to
actually care about results is to pay
them for three year up front and then
what at the end of what two and a half
years they'll start worrying about
results and start picking up work and
you know and I'm not saying that
everyone does this it's just financially
that is the incentive right like if you
know you're cushy for 3 years why max
out what you're going to be doing and
max out the resources and make it an
expensive client for you to run you're
not like it doesn't make any sense um I
think there needs to be tiein for
certain uh deliverables so like SEO
there's no point you not commit until at
least 6 months that again why why are
you doing it at least 3 months but
that's like on a good on a good shot 6
months for sure so contract it in um
with freelancers if it's a
fractional of some sort again a contract
for 6 months would be normal but it
might not be necessary I don't really do
contracts I just work with people until
they don't want to work with me because
at that point I don't want to work with
them either you know like it doesn't
make sense everyone's unhappier at that
point, right? If you actually want to
get out and you can't get out. Um, so
yeah, what what are your thoughts, Em?
Yeah, I I I agree. I think contracting
in the long term seems it seems weird
because yeah, like what if that things
haven't actually worked out the way they
should have done and and all that kind
of stuff. But I do understand like
especially I think things like SEO, PPC,
you do need a considerable amount of
time to see if it's actually going to
start working. Um, and so yeah, you you
can't really expect like a
month-to-month contract with an SEO or a
PPC agency. Like I think that's probably
just foolish. Um, when yeah, when it
comes to I do like a contract as a
fractional. Um, and that's because I
feel like quite a lot of the time going
in as a fractional in the roles that we
sort of do, you're also managing the
team. So there's like an aspect of
stability attached. Um, and it is really
like crap for team members to constantly
have like senior leadership chops and
changes. But I am also like completely
reasonable like if it wasn't working out
for some reason, whatever that might be.
Um, yeah, I'd want to I'd be like, we
can end things if you want. Um, because
you know, you can you do have the
flexibility of being reasonable, which
obviously in an agency you don't have.
Um, so yeah, but I do think I think
contracts are good because I am a
stickler for a bit of governance and a
bit of paperwork. Um, and you know, I
think you need to lay your terms down
clearly. And again, I think that's also
part of your expectation setting
process. It's like you can, you know,
even if a company provides you with the
contract and you sign it and it's their
kind of standard T's and C's, you need
to be reading as even as a freelancer,
you need to be reading that stuff and
you need to check that you're okay with
that. Um, so yeah, I I'm I'm all for it.
And but also don't go for anything
crazy. Um, but equally again as a
freelancer you should at least expect 30
days notice from people to terminate
your work because again we are our own
businesses and we have to have a level
freaking pay you on time. Oh my god. Oh
my goodness. That's the one thing that I
do put like in email. I I don't
typically write contracts, but I'm like,
"One month notice and you will pay me on
time or I will add money to your invoice
because for some reason freelancers,
they think we're just swimming in cash
and this is not how we pay our rent."
So, they just don't pay on time. Same
with agencies. They think they can just
like drag it out and it's like, "No,
there's probably quite a few people
getting paid based on you paying us."
So, yeah. Yeah. I think sometimes the
the long back to the long contract
conversation is that then what I have
seen agencies do is then just literally
try and beef up the deliverables so that
they can get paid um because they're in
a contract for a year but the contract's
based on deliverables. So it's like and
then you're just giving me [__] for the
sake of it. And it's like, and I have
seen some agencies do that, and it's
like, "Oh, right. So, we need to um bill
our 10K this month or whatever it is, so
we better write 12 blogs." Who wants 12
blogs in a month? Do me a favor. So,
yeah, it's that kind of stuff. As long
as whatever is happening from that
paperwork perspective is driving the
right behavior, right? Yeah. Yeah. Then
it's all good. Then do what you need to
do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good point. I
think I think it's I I didn't used to be
I didn't used to do agreements or
contracts but now kind of having a small
team I think for my side I need to so I
can give my team the so the scope of
work and they know what what the
deliverables are per client etc. And
likewise the client knows what we've got
to dear to um but like you said I think
it's important that they're actually
linked to a metric i.e. If the if the
deliverer if the contractor or the
agency is promising to ramp up pipeline
or ramp up revenue or certain metrics
that they've discussed then those have
got to be linked back to that in terms
of the assets in terms of the end
reporting etc. I think that's equally
important and I think a 30-day out is
fine because like you said if if it's
not working as a relationship then it's
not really beneficial to e either side.
Um, and I have had one or two clients.
In fact, there's we've had, which I
think I've talked about on LinkedIn, we
had one or two tech companies that
actually just went like their they they
went too aggressive on marketing. They
lost a load of cash and they just had to
pull out of agreement. And I said,
"Well, I'm not going to hold you to a
six-month term even though you signed.
Like, why would I do that? It's just not
kind. It's not good business. Like, I
understand. Like, let's part ways." Um,
because stuff like that's going to
happen. So, I think it's also being
being reasonable, being fair,
um, and making sure the agencies are
tied to stuff that are going to hit the
metrics you actually care about. Um, so
we've talked a lot about kind of
qualifying the right company. Um, I
suppose the other thing that we should
discuss is kind of to make sure they're
actually delivering and any having any
difficult conversations with the team if
they're not. Mhm.
I'll let you go. I think the difficult
conversations one is really it's
actually really interesting. No, it's
it's really interesting.
Um R and I were doing a talk a little
while ago to a group of PRs. Um and this
comes up a lot with PR. Um because you
know it's sometimes seen as this really
fluffy thing, isn't it? That you know
that has no it's not good unless we're
in the national press, you know.
Um, and I think it ties back to like if
the client, for example, doesn't have a
strategy, it's kind of on you as the
agency to kind of enforce what you think
the right strategy is and to kind of get
them bought in and and and doing it
because that's the other thing. It's
like, oh, they have no marketing
strategy. Rub your hands together. We
can do whatever the hell we like. No,
that's not the right attitude to have.
and then you do end up having more
difficult conversations. It's much
better if you want to take the time up
front to do that work, kind of make sure
we're following a plan, and then to use
that as the thing to kind of go back on
and be like, okay, so we said we were
going to do this, this was our strategy,
this is the why we're doing it, and
we're not doing that. We're doing this
or there's delays on your end or
whatever. So, we're holding everybody
accountable. So, it doesn't kind of
matter which way round or who that comes
from. If it either comes from the
company or the agency or the freelancer,
that's got to happen. Um, I know a lot
of people don't love that, but it you
will get into more difficult
conversations if you don't do it that
way. Um, especially the one around sign
off, right? I think that's one of the
biggest um things that holds agencies
and other people back, like other
freelance marketers back, is the sign
off for stuff takes too long. And by the
time it's signed off, well, there's just
no point. Um, but if you can agree that
stuff all up front and it's tied to a
strategy and tied to metrics, it's a lot
easier. It's not a difficult
conversation then. It's just a what's
going on, guys?
M yeah. Yeah. You got to you got to tie
it back to what's important to you. So
like if an agency is saying, "We're
going to give you four blog posts."
Yeah. So what? Like I don't need blog
posts. I need revenue. You know, like
whatever it is, tie it back to the thing
that matters to you and find a set of
metrics that will maybe not, you know,
perfectly align, but indicate those
things. And then the other thing for me
is like the the easiest way that you can
piss me off as a client is to not report
out of the things that I report out of.
So if if I have HubSpot and I'm paying a
grand a month for my HubSpot, you better
believe you're going to be reporting my
HubSpot numbers to me because that's
what everything is connected for me and
that's the thing I live out of. Like I
don't I don't want your Google Tag
Manager crap or like whatever it is, you
know? like it's it happens like I want
my conversions in HubSpot where I can
see what people came through where like
I don't need a blank statement
conversion out of Google Analytics for
example. So I think that's the other way
to really make sure that the
deliverables are happen the the the
rules the deliverables are happening um
is to make sure that you're reporting
out of the thing that actually shows you
the deliverables instead of like maybe
just what the agency fancies reporting
out of. Um, and if you can get that
align, then you're always talking about
the same stuff. It's never like, "Oh,
but this is this and this is this."
Like, how many times have we had those
conversations?
Yeah, I think it sounds like a lot of it
some comes down to setting expectations
up front. So, you don't shoot yourself
in the foot. And also, I think client
side realizing that there is going to be
some work on your end as well.
Especially like like you mentioned there
like with us like on the SEO side a
biggest bottleneck is if if clients
can't review landing pages or blog posts
or PR work we're doing or things like
that to sign off because otherwise if
they're going to take several months to
do that everything's pushed back se
several months. Um so I think it's being
realistic up front and saying look if
you're not going to have the the time at
all to review this stuff then it's not
going to work. Um we're going to need to
agree to you're going to have to give us
feedback within I don't know a week or
two weeks to keep stuff pushing
forwards. If that's not realistic, then
maybe we should revisit this in, I don't
know, a few months when things calm
down. Um, so those kind of difficult
stuff and then edit it later, you know,
that's also an option. Like we're not
going to post anything that crazy. This
is why I'm a process girly because I'm
like, here is what project management
tool do you use? We're going to use
that. We're going to run this in there.
Like you're going to be able to see
everything. Everything's got a deadline
on it. every you know what you're
expected to do is in there. What I'm
expected to do is in there. Um all the
links to the docs are in there. Like
there there is no kind of um someone
once said to me that you can be very
smug if you have everything written
down. Like if anybody ever comes back to
you and says you didn't do that. Well
that can't happen if you wrote it down.
Like it's there. It's publicly visible.
So like you know if that stuff if you
don't do that then you are kind of
potentially opening yourself up to these
difficult things whereas if that's there
up front you know take the time to do it
even if you're a freelancer. And the
other bit to this is as well is even
from the get-go talking to clients about
how they like to communicate because we
don't all like to communicate in the
same way. I hate it when someone adds me
to teams. I will grin and bear it and
deal with it, but if they add me to a
team's channel, I'm crying on the
inside. Um, but like if you know, like I
will say to people, please don't
WhatsApp me. This is even with my
clients. Like, don't WhatsApp me unless
it's about your dog. Like I I don't
don't just call me out of nowhere. Like
my channels for communication are Slack
and email unless it's like an actual
emergency. And I think even like that
stuff is useful because then we kind of
know where we all stand. And you've
asked the same question back. You've
said, "How do you want to communicate?
What tools do you use?" You know, get
that stuff just get that [__] out of the
way because it's just going to make life
easier.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good points. Good
points. Um I think that's great. I think
Yeah. Yeah, I think setting expectations
is smart for both sides and I think
we've gone through almost a bit of a
checklist really on what you should do
to to find the right agency, make sure
it's both it's a good fit and also
understanding the responsibility client
side to to make the relationship work.
So with that I want to thank you both
for coming on the show and please do
tell us more about your podcast, your
business and how anyone tuning in can
follow or connect with you both.
Yeah. So, uh we are from the Blame My
Marketing Podcast as Sam mentioned at
the beginning. If you want to find us,
literally Google us. We're on all the
podcast platforms and we also have an
episode um that's going to be launching
in a couple of months with Sam about why
SEO just won't die. Um so, we we hope
that you can tune in to that. Um and
then Emma and I are fractional CMOS. If
you ever want to work with us and have
some of this open and honest marketing
chat, u we're here for you. So, you can
again find us on LinkedIn. um or
wherever else you might be listening to
us.
Appreciate it. Thanks very much for
coming on. Thanks. Thank you so much.
Good stuff. And as always, if you
enjoyed this episode, why not join
thousands of other B2B legends enjoying
our unusual newsletter for weekday tips,
ideas, case studies, weird SEO
experiments, and B2B marketing concepts.
You can head over to
breakingb.com and hit that newsletter
tab. And with that, we'll catch you on
the next one. Cheers.
[Music]